Everything is a file in linux.
Every object in linux can be considered to be a file.
Even a directory is a special type of file.

There are three types of Files:

1).Regular File

2).Directory 

3).Special Files

1).Regular File:  Images/Scripts/ configuration or data files.
Regular File are most common type of files that contains some text, data or images.

Example are configuration files, 
shell scripts or code
JPG files 
et cetera.

2).Directory: 
Directory is a type of file as well that stores other files and directories within.

The simplest example of directory file is your home directory.

/home/bob is a directory.
/root     is a directory
/home/bob/code-directory  is a directory.

3).Special Files:

Special Files are subcatergorized into five other file types:

1).Character Files: 
These files represent devices under /dev file system that allow the OS to commmunicate to IO devices serially.
Example includes devices such as the mouse and keyboard.

2). Block files:

Block files represents block devices, block files are located under /dev.
a block device reads from and write to the devices in block or chunk of data.

Example of block devices are hard disk and RAM.

3).Links:
Links in Linux is a way to associate 2 or more file names to the same set of file data.

There are 2 types of links:
1).Hard link: Hard link associates two or more file names that share the same block of data on the physical disk.
Although they behave as independent files, deleting one link will delete the data.

2).Softlink or Symbolic link: They symbolic link or symlink is like a shortcut in windows.
softlink act as a pointer to another file.
deleting softlink does not affect the data in the actual file.

4).Socket Files:
A socket is a special file that enables the communication between two processes.

5).Named Pipes:
Named pipes is a special type of file that allows connecting one process as an input to another process.
The data flow in a pipe is unidirectional from the first process to the second.
