Docker:

with docker you are able to run each component in a separate container with its own libraries and its own dependencies all on the same VM,
and the OS but within separate container.	

just build the docker configuration once and all our developers/devops could now get started with a simple docker run command.

What can Containers do ?

Containerize applications
run each service with its own dependencies in separate containers.

What are containers ? 

Containers are completely isolated environments.
they have their own processes or services.
their own networking interface
their own mounts.

Except they all share the same operating system Kernel.

Containers have existed for about 10 years now and some of the different types of containers are:

LXC
LXD
LXCFS etc.

Docker utilises LXC containers.

Setting up these containers environment as they are very low level and that is where Docker offers a high level tool with
several powerful functions making it realy easy for end users like us.

How Dockers Works ?

Let us revisit some basics concepts of Operating System:

OS like ubuntu, fedora, suse, or centOS, they all consist of two things:

1).An OS Kernel and
2). a set of sofwares.

OS Kernel provide an interface between computer application/process/software and hardware.
OS Kernel is same in Linux, there are different softwares that make the OS different like ubuntu, centos.

these software are:
different user interface
drivers
compilers
file managers,
developer tools etc.

So there is a Common Linux Kernel across all operating systems and custom softwares that differentiate from one os form  to other.

Docker Container share the underlying Kernel ? what it means ?

Ans: 

Lets say we have a system OS - ubuntu and docker installed on it.
Docker can run on any flavor of OS on top of it as long as they all based on the same kernel.
in this case it is Linux system/OS. 

if the underlying operating system is Ubuntu, docker can run a container based on another distribution like Debian, Fedora, Suse, or centOS.
why because OS Kernel is same in Linux, these are different softwares that make the OS different like ubuntu, centos.
OS Kernel is same in Linux, these are different softwares that make the OS different like ubuntu, centos.

and Docker utilizes the underlying Kernel of docker host, hence docker container can run on all Linux OS.

What is an OS that did not share the same kernel ?
is Windows

Hence, you will not bel able to run a windows based container on a docker host with Linux on it.
For that you need docker on a windows server.

Main Purpose of docker is to containerize applications and to ship them and run anywhere any time as you want.






 



