Working with Hardwar: 
Let's take an example of a USB disk to be used in the system.

1).As soon as the USB/device is attached to the system, a corresponding device driver (which is part of the kernel space)
detects the stage change and generates an event called uevent.
2).uevent is then sent to the user-space device manager daemon called udev.
3).The udev service is (then responsible for dynamically) creates a device node associated with the newly attached drive in the /dev file system.
4).once this process is complete, the newly attached disk should be visible under /dev file system.
like /dev/sdb1

5).dmesg is a tool(command) used to display messages from ring buffer (an area of kernel).

6).When a Linux OS boots up, there are numerous messages generated by the kernel that appear on the display screen.

7).These messages also contain logs from the  hardware devices that the kernel detects.

8).dmesg | grep -i usb
use this tool/command to filter for specific device like need usb related msg/logs.

9).udevadm utility is a management tool for udev.
udevadm info --> udev info command query udev database for device information.

10). udevadm info --query=path --name=/dev/sda5 
in this command we are querying the hard disk attached to the system.

11). udevadm monitor command listens to kernel uevents.
upon detecting an event, it prints the details, such as the device path and device name on the screen.

udevadm monitor command is used to display newly attached or removed devices.

in the example: run udevadm monitor and check
remove usb mouse from the system.

12). lspci - command display information about PCI devices that are configured in the system.
PCI peripheral component interconnect, example of PCI devices are ethernet cards, raid,
controllers,video cards and wireless adapters that directly attached to the PCI slots in the motherboard.

13).lsblk command list information about block devices.

$ lsblk
NAME   MAJ:MIN RM  SIZE RO TYPE MOUNTPOINTS
sda      8:0    0  100G  0 disk 
├─sda1   8:1    0   96G  0 part /
└─sda2   8:2    0    4G  0 part [SWAP]
sr0     11:0    1 1024M  0 rom  

sda is the physical disk.
The sda1 to sda5 are partition created for this disk.

type disk is th physical disk/hard drive/hard disk/ssd.
and type part is reusable disk space carved out of the physical disk.

Major and Minor device number (used by the kernel to identify devices)
Major device number - is used to identify the type of device driver associated with the device.




     







